welcome to the first video in this
series where I want to help you
understand DNS DNS is one of the core
services on the internet when it doesn't
work applications and other services
will fail now in this video series I'll
be covering what DNS does why it's
structured the way that it is how DNS
Works to get us answers to queries and
I'll finish up by covering some of its
key limitations now with that being said
let's jump in and get started now before
I cover how DNS works and why it works
in the specific way that it does I want
you to be a hundred percent sure of what
functionality DNS provides now when you
access any website you type the name
into your browser for example
www.netflix.com now you might imagine
that the name is used to connect to the
netflix.com servers and stream your
movie or TV show but that's not actually
how it or any internet app generally
Works simply put humans like names
because they're easy to remember but
networks or servers not so much to
communicate with Netflix your computer
and any networking in between needs the
IP addresses of the Netflix servers DNS
actually does many different things but
at its core it's like a big contact
database in this context it links names
to IP addresses so using DNS when
accessing Netflix we would ask DNS for
the IP address of Netflix
it would return the answer and then our
device would use that IP address to
connect over the Internet to the Netflix
servers so conceptually the main piece
of functionality which DNS provides is
that it's a huge database which converts
DNS names so netflix.com into IP
addresses now so far I hope that this
makes sense at this point it sounds just
like a database so nothing complex and
you might be asking yourself why not
just have one DNS server globally or a
small collection of servers now we're
going to review that in the next video
for this video I just wanted to set the
scene and make sure you understand
exactly what functionality DNS provides
DNS is critical many large-scale
failures on the internet are caused by
either failed DNS or badly implemented
DNS infrastructure if you want to be
effective at designing or implementing
Cloud Solutions or network-based
applications you have to understand DNS
so if you are interested in knowing more
then go ahead and move to the next video
where I'll cover why DNS is structured
in the way that it is